.TH CONDUCT 1 "March 2026" "conductor" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
conduct \- orchestrate AI-assisted work inside a git repository
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B conduct
.I command
[
.I arguments
]
.br
.B conduct init
.br
.B conduct new
[
.B \-t
title
]
[
.B \-\-model
model
]
[
.B \-\-edit
]
[
.B \-\-start
]
[
.B \-a
acceptance
]
[
.B \-c
constraint
]
[
.B \-s
scope
]
.br
.B conduct list
.br
.B conduct show
.I id
.br
.B conduct edit
.I id
.br
.B conduct start
.I id
[
.B \-\-model
model
]
.br
.B conduct open
.I id
.br
.B conduct land
.I id
.br
.B conduct drop
.I id
.br
.B conduct status
.br
.B conduct config show
.br
.B conduct doctor
.br
.B conduct version
.br
.B conduct completion
.I shell
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B conduct
manages task records, git worktrees, branches, tmux windows, and agent sessions for work performed inside a git repository.

Work items are stored as Markdown files with YAML front matter under
.I .conduct/work
.
Starting a work item creates or reuses a task branch, creates a worktree, writes the current task file, opens or creates a tmux window, and launches the configured agent command.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Create the
.I .conduct/
layout in the current git repository.
If
.I .conduct/config.yaml
does not exist, write a default config.
Also ensure conductor runtime files are ignored by git.
.TP
.B new
Create a new work item.
If no title is provided, conduct writes a draft file and opens it in the editor.
If a title is provided, conduct writes the task record directly.
Use
.B \-\-start
to start the task immediately after creation.
.TP
.B list
List active and archived work items.
.TP
.B show
.I id
Show one work item by numeric ID or zero-padded ID.
.TP
.B edit
.I id
Open an active work item in the editor.
If the body is empty, conduct inserts a
.B "## Description"
heading first.
.TP
.B start
.I id
Start an active work item.
This command ensures the task branch exists, creates the worktree if needed, writes
.I .conduct/current.md
in that worktree, creates the tmux window if needed, and launches the agent command.
If already running inside tmux, conduct starts the task window in the background and prints the tmux target.
Otherwise it opens the tmux target.
.TP
.B open
.I id
Open the tmux window for an active work item.
The window must already exist.
.TP
.B land
.I id
Squash-merge the task branch into the configured main branch, archive the work item, and remove the task worktree and branch.
This command must be run from the configured main branch.
The task worktree must be clean.
The task branch must be ahead of main.
conduct does not create the final commit; it leaves the squash merge result in the main worktree for review and commit.
.TP
.B drop
.I id
Archive the work item as dropped and remove the associated worktree and branch after confirmation.
.TP
.B status
Show active work items and whether their tmux windows are currently active.
.TP
.B config show
Print the effective configuration as YAML.
.TP
.B doctor
Check repository, tool, model, and layout readiness.
This reports git repository status, git and tmux availability, configured agent command availability, configured default model availability, and conductor layout presence.
.TP
.B completion
.I shell
Print a shell completion script for
.IR bash ,
.IR zsh ,
or
.IR fish .
The generated completion is context-aware for subcommands, command flags, and active work item IDs.
.TP
.B version
Print build metadata.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS conduct new
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-title " " title
Set the work item title.
If omitted, conduct creates a draft file and opens the editor.
.TP
.B \-\-model
Set a model override for the new work item.
The value must be in
.B provider/model
format and must be available from the configured agent command.
.TP
.B \-\-edit
Open the work item in the editor before returning.
.TP
.B \-\-start
Start the work item immediately after creation.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-accept " " text
Add an acceptance criterion.
This option may be provided more than once.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-constraint " " text
Add a constraint.
This option may be provided more than once.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-scope " " text
Add a scope value.
This option may be provided more than once.
.SS conduct start
.TP
.B \-\-model
Override the model used for this start operation.
If set, this value takes precedence over the work item model and the configured default model.
.SH WORKFLOW
.TP
1.
Run
.B conduct init
once per repository.
.TP
2.
Create a work item with
.B conduct new
or
.B "conduct new -t ..."
.
.TP
3.
Start it with
.B conduct start
or by using
.B \-\-start
at creation time.
.TP
4.
Use
.B conduct status
,
.B conduct list
,
and
.B conduct show
to inspect state.
.TP
5.
Use
.B conduct open
to return to an existing tmux window.
.TP
6.
Use
.B conduct land
to apply a squash merge onto main after the task branch has committed changes and the task worktree is clean.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .conduct/config.yaml
Project configuration.
.TP
.I .conduct/work/active/
Active work item records.
.TP
.I .conduct/work/archive/
Archived work item records.
.TP
.I .conduct/worktrees/
Task worktrees.
.TP
.I .conduct/current.md
Runtime copy of the current assignment written inside a task worktree.
Do not include this file in commits.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B EDITOR
Editor command used by
.B conduct new
and
.B conduct edit
when a file must be opened interactively.
If
.B EDITOR
is unset, conduct uses
.B vi
.
.TP
.B TMUX
If set, conduct assumes it is already running inside tmux and starts task windows in the background instead of attaching immediately.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B conduct
returns 0 on success and non-zero on error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Initialize the current repository:
.B conduct init
.TP
Create and start a task:
.B "conduct new -t 'Fix flaky tests' --start"
.TP
Create a task with more metadata:
.B "conduct new -t 'Review backend code' --scope api --accept 'tests updated' --constraint 'do not change public API'"
.TP
Start an existing task:
.B "conduct start 1"
.TP
Open a running task window:
.B "conduct open 1"
.TP
Land finished work from main:
.B "conduct land 1"
.TP
Enable bash completion for the current shell:
.B "source <(conduct completion bash)"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR tmux (1)
